# LAN Security Concepts

## ******SSH******

---

The following example illustrates SSH and local database methods of remote access.

```
R1(config)# **ip domain-name example.com**
R1(config)# **crypto key generate rsa general-keys modulus 2048**
R1(config)# **username Admin secret Str0ng3rPa55w0rd**
R1(config)# **ssh version 2**
R1(config)# **line vty 0 4**
R1(config-line)# **transport input ssh**
R1(config-line)# **login local**
```

---

## AAA

### ****************************AUTHENTICATION****************************

---

- **Local AAA Authentication**

Stores usernames and passwords locally in a network device such as the Cisco router. Users authenticate against the local database, as shown in figure

- **Server-Based AAA Authentication**

The router accesses a central AAA server which contains the usernames and passwords for all users

### **AUTHORIZATION**

---

uses a set of attributes that describes the user’s access to the network.

### ACCOUNTING

Collects and reports usage data.

### IEEE 802.1X

---

Port-based access control and authentication protocol.

- **Client (Supplicant)** - This is a device running 802.1X-compliant client software, which is available for wired or wireless devices.
- **`Switch (Authenticator)`** – The switch acts as an intermediary between the client and the authentication server. It requests identifying information from the client, verifies that information with the authentication server, and relays a response to the client. Another device that could act as authenticator is a wireless access point.
- **`Authentication Server** –` The server validates the identity of the client and notifies the switch or wireless access point that the client is or is not authorized to access the LAN and switch services.

---

## OSI LAYER

---

`**LAYER 1- PHYSICAL**`

`**LAYER 4- TRANSPORT**`

`**LAYER 7 - APPLICATION**`

`**LAYER 2- DATA LINK**`

`**LAYER 5 - SESSION**`

`**LAYER 3- NETWORK**`

`**LAYER 6- PRESENTATION**`

---

## SECURING LAYER 2

---

```
S1# show mac address-table dynamic
```

---

LAYER 2

---

**VLAN HOPPING :** exploits Dynamic Trunking capability of switches

**VLAN DOUBLE TAGGING attacker** embed a hidden 802.1Q tag inside the frame that already has an 802.1Q tag

---

REMOVE TRUNKING ON AP

TRY NOT TO USE DTP , Try to manually configure the trunks

---

DHCP 

---

DHCP DISCOVER - BROADCAST

DHCP OFFER - UNICAST 

DHCP REQUEST - BROADCAST 

DHCP ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - UNICAST

---

`dhcp starvation` - goal is DoS. 

`dhcp spoofing`  -  **************rouge dhcp providing false information**************

---

### VLAN ATTACK MITIGATION

- Disable trunking on all access ports.
- Disable auto trunking on trunk links so that trunks must be manually enabled.
- Be sure that the native VLAN is only used for trunk links.

---

**CDP VULNERABILITY MITIGATION**

---

- Limit the use of CDP on devices or ports .
    
    Disable  **CDP on edge ports that connect to untrusted devices.
    
    ```
    SW1 (config) # no cdp run
    ```
    
    - To disable CDP on a port:
    
    ```
    SW1 (config-inf) # **no cdp enable**
    ```
    

---

**`Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP)`** is also vulnerable to reconnaissance attacks. Configure `**no lldp run`** to disable LLDP globally. To disable LLDP on the interface, configure **no `lldp transmit`**and **`no lldp receive`**